In June 2015, I went to Sheffield, and saw a paternoster lift,
an outdated design elevator, with a revolving chain of open cabs.
In June 2016, I traveled to Genoa in Italy
and I saw a lift that also moved sideways
except that it was actually a little cheating,
it is actually a small horizontal cart
that moves into a larger lift that does all the heavy lifting.
And now it is June 2017.
And I am in Germany, at the brand new Thyssenkrupp lift test tower
and they flew me here to show Multi,
their actual, life-size, working lift
that moves sideways without cheating.
For us it was very important to have a tower to test the new technology
We do not want to test it on the customer's location.
The tower is 246m high, and thus 1700 steps.
I know exactly, because I myself once walked upstairs!
This is a building that is almost entirely made of elevator shafts
Some test normal lifts
but some are reserved for this new system.
The principle of a continuous rotating flow of cabins
was one of the best inventions in our industry ever.
And in order to achieve this, we have to exchange booths, from one shaft to another.
And to keep this exchange, we have to have an exchanger,
which you see behind me.
This exchanger ensures that we can move horizontally.
The exchanger can be placed at any point in the shaft,
he thus allows us to do all kinds of configurations.
Drop vertically, and then move horizontally.
One of the problems with elevators in very tall buildings
is that you need a cable that is so long that it can not lift its own weight,
let alone the weight of the cabin attached to it.
The solution here is a bit different, and he uses no cables at all.
He uses linear induction motors.
Linear drive - it is also a synchronous motor with permanent magnets,
maybe you know it from a rotary engine.
If we just take this engine, and cut off half of it
and just lay it flat on the table,
then you already have a linear drive
So this is what we have, vertically and also horizontally.
In an ordinary elevator, that's called a friction lift,
do you have cables that keep the cabin up
each of which can hold up more than the designed weight
You also have emergency brakes that come out
and slow down the cab with friction if it moves too fast.
And in the worst worst case, if all fails in one way or another fails
you have a buffer on the bottom that has a free fall
from "fatal" to "serious injuries".
Lifts are incredibly safe because they are very well regulated.
So before this is allowed people carry it
the system must be at least just as failsafe.
Safety is not just in the ropes of a traditional lift
but in the brake system.
In traditional lifts you have the brake
in the machine at the top of the shaft in the engine room,
now we have the brake directly in the cabs.
This new component, the exchanger,
where we can go from vertical to horizontal,
must also be checked by our security inspectorate.
What is the position of the exchanger?
Is he locked?
Is he safe?
And in the case of a breach of the security rule,
then we go to a "safe state".
There are of course some snakes in the grass.
Linear induction motors are expensive and heavy.
Each of the cabs must have its own set.
And the whole elevator shaft, from the bottom to the top,
must be coated with the magnetic coil that gives them power.
To save weight, the cabs are made of carbon fiber and aluminum.
So, will it work in the real world?
Thyssenkrupp's models say yes,
once everything has been tested and approved here,
is the next step to sell it
to the kind of huge multinational company that builds skyscrapers
and does not like risk.
And that is perhaps an even bigger challenge than überhaubt make the elevator.
Many thanks to the team here at Thyssenkrupp that invited me.
You can get the description for more about Multi.